Add powersensor integration (#42493)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/powersensor.markdown

---
title: Powersensor
description: Integrate Powersensor plugs and sensors into Home Assistant

> ha_release: 2026.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.2
```

ha_category: Sensor
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@jmattsson'
  - '@bookman-dius'
ha_domain: powersensor
ha_integration_type: hub
ha_quality_scale: bronze
related:
  - url: https://dius.github.io/homeassistant-powersensor/
    title: External documentation 
---

> The `Powersensor` {% term integration %} is used to integrate with the devices [Powersensor](https://www.powersensor.com.au), principally exposing data from plugs and sensors over your local WiFi network. The aim is to facilitate by detailed viewing of Powersensor data as well as use in home automations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Powersensor** {% term integration %} integrates [Powersensor](https://www.powersensor.com.au) devices into Home Assistant. The integration lets you view data from Powersensor plugs and sensors and use them in automations.
```
Tiny tweak, removing some of the implementation detail, as this is the high-level intro. Feel free to rewrite or ignore.

## Supported devices

The following devices are known to be supported by the integration:

- Powersensor Plugs with firmware >=8129
- Powersensor Sensors with firmware >=8129

## Unsupported devices

> Devices running firmware <8129 are not supported and should be upgraded, though devices with firmware >=8100 may have partial functionality within Home Assistant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Devices running firmware <8129 are not supported and should be upgraded, though devices with firmware >=8100 may have partial functionality within Home Assistant.
```

## Prerequisites

> Before setting up this integration, ensure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before setting up this integration, make sure that the following criteria are met:
```

> Before setting up this integration, ensure:

Reviewer: do I need a Powersensor app to add the devices to my network before I can add them to Home Assistant?

Author: Good point! Yes, to get the devices initially connected to Wi-Fi, you do need the mobile app. I've added some changes to reflect that.

> - Your Powersensor devices are powered on and connected to the same WiFi network as Home Assistant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your Powersensor devices are powered on and connected to the same Wi-Fi network as Home Assistant
```

- Your devices are running firmware 8129 or later (check via the Powersensor mobile app)
- UDP traffic is allowed on your local network

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ## Supported entities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported functionality
```

This integration provides the following platforms:

- **Sensor**: Power consumption, voltage, current, energy, and other sensor data

> - **Battery**: Battery level for sensors (i.e. not plugs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Battery**: Battery level for sensors (but not for plugs)
```

## Known limitations

The integration does not provide complete support for Powersensor water sensors and water flow data is not exposed in Home Assistant. However, the integration will surface any water sensor on the network and expose the battery level of the sensor.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ## Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Actions
```

> This integration does not provide any custom service actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration does not provide any custom actions.
```
services have been renamed to actions

---
title: Powersensor
description: Integrate Powersensor plugs and sensors into Home Assistant
ha_release: 2026.2
ha_category: Sensor
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@jmattsson'
  - '@bookman-dius'
ha_domain: powersensor
ha_integration_type: hub
ha_quality_scale: bronze
related:
  - url: https://dius.github.io/homeassistant-powersensor/

>     title: External documentation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    title: External power sensor integration documentation 
```

>     title: External power sensor integration documentation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    title: External Powersensor integration documentation 
```

  - Please note: Installing Powersensor devices in your home requires the mobile app which provides step-by-step instructions on initial configuration. This is only required for initial set up. Once your devices are connected to Wi-Fi, the Home Assistant integration should work regardless of whether or not you subsequently delete the mobile app from your devices.
- Your devices are running firmware 8129 or later (check via the Powersensor mobile app)
- UDP traffic is allowed on your local network

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Supported functionality

This integration provides the following platforms:

- **Sensor**: Power consumption, voltage, current, energy, and other sensor data
- **Battery**: Battery level for sensors (but not for plugs)

## Known limitations

The integration does not provide complete support for Powersensor water sensors and water flow data is not exposed in Home Assistant. However, the integration will surface any water sensor on the network and expose the battery level of the sensor.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Actions

This integration does not provide any custom actions.

> ## Removal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Removing the integration
```

> ## Removal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Removing the integration
```
